content/docs/faq/alpine-faq.md, before:

---
tags: docker, alpine
---

## Alpine faq

This faq contains multiple questions related to using Alpine on wercker. Most
issues are caused by the minimal nature of the images, this is why most issues
are also applicable to other minimal containers, such as busy box.

- [I receive a "context canceled" error when using an Alpine container](#i-receive-a-context-canceled-error-when-using-an-alpine-container)
- [I receive the "Unable to sync environment" when using docker-push on Alpine](#i-receive-the-unable-to-sync-environment-when-using-docker-push-on-alpine)
- [Environment variables I create are not available when using docker-push on Alpine](#created-variables-not-available)

<a name="context-canceled"></a>
### I receive a "context canceled" error when using an Alpine container

This error occurs during the `setup environment` step, and is caused by the
fact that we use `/bin/bash` to run the steps. Alpine doesn't contain the bash
shell, so it fails. 

Wercker doesn't require `bash`, is is also possible to use `sh`. You're able
to override the cmd that wercker uses by specifying the `cmd` property in the
box section:

```yaml
box:
    id: alpine
    cmd: /bin/sh
```

<a name="unable-to-sync"></a>
### I receive the "Unable to sync environment" when using docker-push on Alpine

After receiving this warning the container stops. Before running the docker
deploy step, we first synchronize the environment variables from within the
container to the wercker exectable. We do this by invoking `env --null` inside
the container and parsing the output. Alpine does not support the `--null`
flag, and so it crashes. 

To prevent this error from happening, you can add the `disable-sync` flag:

```yaml
box:
    id: alpine
    cmd: /bin/sh
deploy:
    steps:
        - internal/docker-push:
            disable-sync: true
```

This does mean that you're unable to use any environment variables defined
within the container. Any environment variables defined at the start of
execution, or on the wercker web will work.

<a name="created-variables-not-available"></a>
### Environment variables I create are not available when using docker-push on Alpine

When using using an image based on the default Alpine image, you may find that variables you create (by `export var=value`) on the image arent't available to the internal/docker-push step. This is because Alpine by default doesn't have "env --null" support, which wercker uses to sync the env. This does not affect variables that were available to the image prior to the execution of the steps, such as wercker environment variables, variables defined on the Environment tab or pipeline config of the interface.

In the example below, `$GCR_JSON_KEY_FILE` and `$GCR_REPOSITORY_NAME` (set via Environment tab) is available to the docker-push step and has a value, whereas `$PACKAGE_VERSION` is not and is in fact empty.

```yaml
push:
  box: nginx:stable-alpine
  steps:
    - script:
        name: set docker image tag
        code: export PACKAGE_VERSION=$WERCKER_GIT_COMMIT
    - internal/docker-push:
        registry: https://gcr.io
        username: _json_key
        password: $GCR_JSON_KEY_FILE
        repository: $GCR_REPOSITORY_NAME
        tag: $PACKAGE_VERSION
```

One solution is to use an alpine image that supports `env --null`, such as the one created by [Max Metral](https://github.com/djMax): [gasbuddy/wercker-alpine](https://github.com/gas-buddy/docker-wercker-alpine). With this image, the problem should be resolved and enviroment variables created in the container should work as expected.

Commit message:

Add alternative similar to using custom image
- Added suggested solution of installing coreutils prior to exporting custom environment variables.

content/docs/faq/alpine-faq.md, after:

---
tags: docker, alpine
---

## Alpine faq

This faq contains multiple questions related to using Alpine on wercker. Most
issues are caused by the minimal nature of the images, this is why most issues
are also applicable to other minimal containers, such as busy box.

- [I receive a "context canceled" error when using an Alpine container](#i-receive-a-context-canceled-error-when-using-an-alpine-container)
- [I receive the "Unable to sync environment" when using docker-push on Alpine](#i-receive-the-unable-to-sync-environment-when-using-docker-push-on-alpine)
- [Environment variables I create are not available when using docker-push on Alpine](#created-variables-not-available)

<a name="context-canceled"></a>
### I receive a "context canceled" error when using an Alpine container

This error occurs during the `setup environment` step, and is caused by the
fact that we use `/bin/bash` to run the steps. Alpine doesn't contain the bash
shell, so it fails. 

Wercker doesn't require `bash`, is is also possible to use `sh`. You're able
to override the cmd that wercker uses by specifying the `cmd` property in the
box section:

```yaml
box:
    id: alpine
    cmd: /bin/sh
```

<a name="unable-to-sync"></a>
### I receive the "Unable to sync environment" when using docker-push on Alpine

After receiving this warning the container stops. Before running the docker
deploy step, we first synchronize the environment variables from within the
container to the wercker exectable. We do this by invoking `env --null` inside
the container and parsing the output. Alpine does not support the `--null`
flag, and so it crashes. 

To prevent this error from happening, you can add the `disable-sync` flag:

```yaml
box:
    id: alpine
    cmd: /bin/sh
deploy:
    steps:
        - internal/docker-push:
            disable-sync: true
```

This does mean that you're unable to use any environment variables defined
within the container. Any environment variables defined at the start of
execution, or on the wercker web will work.

<a name="created-variables-not-available"></a>
### Environment variables I create are not available when using docker-push on Alpine

When using using an image based on the default Alpine image, you may find that variables you create (by `export var=value`) on the image arent't available to the internal/docker-push step. This is because Alpine by default doesn't have "env --null" support, which wercker uses to sync the env. This does not affect variables that were available to the image prior to the execution of the steps, such as wercker environment variables, variables defined on the Environment tab or pipeline config of the interface.

In the example below, `$GCR_JSON_KEY_FILE` and `$GCR_REPOSITORY_NAME` (set via Environment tab) is available to the docker-push step and has a value, whereas `$PACKAGE_VERSION` is not and is in fact empty. Note that for simplicity, `version_from_package_dot_json` represents the value from the version field from the package.json.

```yaml
push:
  box: nginx:stable-alpine
  steps:
    - script:
        name: set docker image tag
        code: export PACKAGE_VERSION="version_from_package_dot_json"
    - internal/docker-push:
        registry: https://gcr.io
        username: _json_key
        password: $GCR_JSON_KEY_FILE
        repository: $GCR_REPOSITORY_NAME
        tag: $PACKAGE_VERSION
```

A possible solution is to install `coreutils` prior to exporting the environment variable, such as:

```yaml
box:
  id: nginx:stable-alpine
  cmd: /bin/sh
build:
  steps:
    - script:
        name: add coreutils
        code: apk add --no-cache --update coreutils
    - script:
        name: set docker image tag
        code: export PACKAGE_VERSION="version_from_package_dot_json"
    - internal/docker-push:
        registry: https://gcr.io
        username: _json_key
        password: $GCR_JSON_KEY_FILE
        repository: $GCR_REPOSITORY_NAME
        tag: $PACKAGE_VERSION
```

Alternatively, one can use an alpine image that supports `env --null`, such as the one created by [Max Metral](https://github.com/djMax): [gasbuddy/wercker-alpine](https://github.com/gas-buddy/docker-wercker-alpine). With this image, the problem should be resolved and enviroment variables created in the container should work as expected.
